#labels UAVX,gke,jesolins,40MHz
= 40MHz Versions of UAVX =

== WARNING - READ THIS OR YOU WILL LOSE COMMUNICATION WITH YOUR UAVP BOARD ==

Do not load load versions of UAVX with "40" in the name if you are still using the original 16Mhz crystal. If you do *YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO COMMUNICATE WITH UAVX*.  If you make this mistake you will require a PIC programmer to reload A 16Mhz version of UAVX onto the PIC.

You *must* do the first 40Mhz UAVX firmware load with a PIC programmer because this loads a different boot sector code which requires the PIC programmer. So *do not* do the first load of the 40Mhz firmware via the UAVPset with or without the crystal change. This will stop further communication with the PIC until you properly program it initially with a PIC programmer.


=== Using the 40MHz Version ===

In order to use the 40Mhz UAVX firmware, you MUST do two things:

  # remove the 16MHz crystal and replace it with a 10MHz crystal and
  # use a PIC programmer to do the first load of a 40MHz version onto your PIC ( or obtain one ready programmed from www.quadroufo.com ).

CAUTION: The PIC's pins are somewhat delicate.  Take care to make sure they are lined up properly and gently press them into place in the socket.  See [http://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showpost.php?p=12924177&postcount=96 PIC Replacement 101]

After this you will be able to use UAVPSet as before for updating UAVX but again only those hex files with 40 in the name. The 40MHz versions, while not extensively tested, are likely to give better performance particularly for smaller (decreased motor spacing) more agile quads.

See the "File Versions" paragraph in the UAVXStartup document in the WIKI for further details on the naming of the UAVX hex files.

=== Where to Get 40MHz Crystals ===

The required crystal can be added to the board if ordered from www.quadroufo.com for about 50 cents.

The crystal is one similar to: http://www.mouser.com/Search/ProductDetail.aspx?R=ABL-10.000MHZ-B2virtualkey52750000virtualkey815-ABL-10-B2