#summary UAVX PIC V2 and UAVXArm use a direct channel assignment scheme. This Wiki gives the current known channel orders.
#labels Featured,UAVX,gke,jesolins

=== Introduction ===

UAVX PIC V2 and UAVXArm use a direct channel assignment scheme. This Wiki gives the current known channel orders.

== What Does This Mean ==

There are many different orderings of the Rx channels and we need to convert them to a single reference ordering which for UAVX is JR or:

  * 1: Throttle
  * 2: Aileron
  * 3: Elevator
  * 4: Rudder
  * 5: Gear
  * 6: Aux1
  * 7: Aux2

We need to tell UAVX what the actual order is for the particular Tx/Rx combination we are using so let us use Futaba Ch3 as an example

  * Futaba Th 3 	{2,3,1,4,5,6,7} connect {2, 1, 5, 7} N

The channel order is {2,3,1,4,5,6,7} or Aileron, Elevator, Throttle, Rudder etc.

So the 7 channels in the first {} are what you would normally enter in order in the numeric boxes for the Rx channels. The first 4 numbers in almost all cases correspond to the primary flight controls. It is possible to change this order but usually you would only change the order of the last three channels to put the RTH/Nav, Sensitivity and Camera trim on more appropriate Tx controls.

=== UAVP Parallel Decoder ===

The Rx output channels shown in {} after "connect" MUST be used for parallel connections from the Rx to the UAVP board. The order of the channels does not matter but if you use any other channels it will simply not work. 

=== External Decoder ===

There are a number of external decoders which may be connected to any of the UAVX Rx input signal pins. These decoders produce composite PPM or a "packet" of channel values. 

The N/P indicates the polarity of signals for composite PPM input.

=== More Than 7 Channels ===

It is relatively easy to add additional channels to the UAVP board and most external decoders have more. UAVX does not currently require additional channels but has provision for 9 channels in the V2 release. 

== Known Tx/Rx Channel Orderings ==

Futaba Th 3 	{2,3,1,4,5,6,7} connect {2, 1, 5, 7} N

Futaba Th 2 	{2,1,4,3,5,6,7} connect {2, 4, 5, 7} N

Futaba DM8 & AR7000 	{4,3,2,6,1,5,7} connect {4, 2, 1, 7} P

JR PPM 	{1,2,3,4,5,6,7} connect {1, 3, 5, 7, } P

JR DM9 & AR7000 	{2,7,5,3,6,4,1} connect {2, 5, 6, 1} P

JR DSX12 & AR7000 	{2,6,5,3,7,1,4} connect {2, 5, 7, 4} P

Spektrum DX7 & AR7000 	{2,6,5,3,7,1,4} connect {2, 5, 7, 4} P

Spektrum DX7 & AR6200 	{2,6,5,3,1,4,7} connect {2, 5, 1, 7} P

Futaba Th 2 Swap 6&7 	{2,3,1,4,5,7,6} connect {2, 1, 5, 6} N

Spektrum DX7 & AR6000 	{1,2,3,4,5,6,7} connect {1, 3, 5, 7} P

Graupner MX16s 	{1,2,3,4,5,6,7} connect {1, 3, 5, 7} P

Spektrum DX6i & AR6200 	{2,5,3,4,1,6,7} connect {2, 3, 1, 7} P

Futaba Th 3 & R617FS 	{2,3,1,4,5,6,7} connect {2, 1, 5, 7} P

Spektrum DX7a & AR7000 	{2,6,3,4,1,5,7} connect {2, 3, 1, 7} P

External Decoder 	{2,3,1,4,5,7,6} connect {2, 1, 5, 6} N

FrSky DJT & D8R-SP Composite 	{1,2,3,4,5,6,7} connect {1, 3, 5, 7} P