#summary The Tx sticks may be used to change some parameters in the field.
#labels Featured,gke,UAVX

== Stick Programming ==

The Tx sticks may be used to change some parameters or adjust the accelerometer neutrals in the field.

=== When Disarmed ===

Configuration is done when disarmed.

Rudder and Elevator are used together with the Rudder selecting the parameter set and Elevator enabling or disabling altitude hold when returning to home or navigating. Both sticks must be moved for these programming steps.

  * Rudder stick left parameter set 1 and right parameter set 2
  * Elevator stick down enable altitude hold up disable

The Aileron can set the aircraft to hold current heading when navigating or to turn towards the next waypoint or home.

  * Aileron stick left selects hold heading right turn to waypoint or home.

The blue LED will flash accompanied by the beeper when you have changed a setting.

=== When Armed ===

It is inevitable that the accelerometer neutrals will require small adjustments regardless of how well you leveled the aircraft during setup. 

You should not use the Tx trims which should be set to zero (no trims). Choose a day when there is no wind. You only need to do this once unless you have a major crash as there is very little in the accelerometer neutral values.

  * fly the aircraft pointing away from you and note the directions that it drifts.
  * land and, with the throttle closed but still armed, hold the aileron or elevator stick at maximum in direction opposite to the drift until you hear a beep.
  * Fly again repeating until there is no drift.