#summary This a progress report for the implementation of UAVX on mbed based on the LPC1768 Arm processor.
#labels UAVX,gke,kisssys,jesolins,UAVXGS,multicopter

== UAVXArm ==

The UAVXArm prototype has been running since November 2010 on the mbed which is basically a 40pin DIP with the LPC1768 Arm. The main part of the port to a clean compile from the 18F2620 PIC version took about 2-3 hours with breaks for coffee/beer and comfort stops. 

A trial port to Arduino has also been done but the near open-ended Arm performance limits makes the Arm *FAR* more attractive.

The original KISS strategy continues with a minimal-hardware uniprocessor implementation. A simple main polling loop with transparent coding is used with no underlying RTOS. Overt interrupts are confined to capturing RC control PWM input although this will be replaced by I2C comms in due course. 

------> breadboard photo here 

=== Implementation Timescale ===

Probably a couple of months.

All of the software is running on breadboard with all sensors tested.

The design of an initial prototype mother board has almost be completed. The board is anticipated to be around 45x55mm and so smaller than the current UAVP. The lead time for any iterations on the board are a little open-ended but also should be around a month. Getting them fabricated up in quantity has not been addressed yet. 

We are attempting as far as is possible to scale the current familiar parameter values to the new parameters required by UAVXArm. This will require a degree of trial and error which is likely to be *time consuming* and may take upwards of a month with the onset of the Northern Hemisphere Winter.

Remember this is a free free-time effort.

=== Performance ===

The current UAVX PIC 18F2620 @ 16MHz main loop runs at ~150Hz and uses the entire 32K of available code space and ~1200 bytes of RAM.

The Arm code is running easily at 1KHz+ in the main loop including all of the control and navigation functions. Most of the time is taken up in I2C communications (0.7ms) at 400KHz with the balance for computation 0.3mS unoptimised. 

Unlike the PIC version which was entirely integer arithmetic UAVXArm is all in floating point (FP). To date the code space is about 117Kb (23%) and RAM use is 12Kb (37%) but with a lot of extra stuff compared to the PIC version. The mbed LPC1768 is not equipped with hardware FP. It performs FP arithmetic by software emulation and yet still obtains an entirely satisfactory performance level. Arm processors with FP are available for higher performance levels - if required :). 

=== Algorithms ===

UAVXArm uses the same Navigation and ancilliary algorithms as UAVX. The main departures are in attitude estimation and (later) control

==== Attitude ====

The PIC version of UAVX used a simple gyro drift compensation scheme and relied on the gravity vector from the accelerometers. This scheme worked perfectly well for near level flight on camera platforms and is computationally efficient.
 
UAVXArm uses the DCM attitude estimation algorithm, like almost everyone else now does. This formulation is not confined to near level flight and yields good attitude estimation for very high angles found in aerobatic flight. 

The computational requirements for the DCM are more intense pushing simpler processors to their limits. The Arm processor performance is so high that the computations hardly stretch it all.

Thanks for the DCM scheme go to Rob Mahony et al. for the theory and William Premerlani et al. for making it useful.

==== Control ====

UAVXArm continues, for now at least, to use the simple decoupled axis assumptions and with independent PID based controllers on each axis. It is intended to replace this with coupled axis more optimal controllers in the future - as time permits.

=== Sensors ===

Sensors are generally auto-detected (Plug and Play) and include:

  * Analog gyros from UAVX
  * ITG3200 3-axis gyros
  * FMA Co-pilot 3-axis IR attitude

  * ADXL345 3-axis accelerometer
  * LIS3L 3-axis accelerometer

  * HMC6352 Compass
  * HMC5843 3-axis Magnetometer

  * SMD500 Barometer
  * BMP085 Barometer
  * MPX4115 Barometer

  * TMP100 Temerature

  * PCA9551 LED driver

  * XXX Rangefinder