#summary UAVX V1.1007 Beta Release Notes.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy,UAVX,gke,jesolins

= UAVX V1.1007 Beta Release =

OK so at last we have the V1.1007 release of UAVX up in the downloads area. It ONLY works with UAVPSet 4.03 which Jim will upload shortly. If you use an older version of UAVPSet some of the critical new parameters will not be set and you will end up with a BROKEN AIRCRAFT .

This release of UAVX includes a SIMULATE (which should disable motors) variant for use with UAVXGS to convince yourself that the logic of position hold and RTH are working and more importantly that your sensors and GPS are producing sensible values. This can be done on the ground with no actual telemetry link of course. We have lost some of the Test Software tests for space reasons and because UAVXGS will replace these over time.

The HELI and FIXED WING options have not been fully commissioned although HELI (Eaton) is close I believe.

The 40MHz version is only now being tested by Jim but if you are fearless (and Beta testers need to be) feel free to have a play.

Many things have not been tested fully and there is ENORMOUS scope for tuning altitude and navigation parameters. Jim and I have been severely constrained by weather etc. The number of parameters is significantly increased. You WILL need to take note of your magic numbers, use the default parameter load then add your magic numbers back in.

Do not change the GravComp and GravSteps parameters unless you are a 10th Dan quadrocoopter person (like Jim) or alternatively more than slightly crazy as these relate to the accelerometer compensation of the gyros. There is a reason they are in RED.

The AccOrientation is for those who wish to mount their accelerometer flat rather than vertical with the chip upwards. This is a hint at the startof an effort to reduce the profile (height) of the UAVP board; more later.

The rangefinder code is in and you can choose inches or centimetres depending on the flavor you may buy.

One of the first things you need to do for your location is to get the GPS/Baro parameter set. This involves making sure you have a good GPS lock then fly about a bit in the range 10-20M (the easy part) and when you get down the XStats should have an estimate of what this number should be. You will have it adjusted correctly when the peak baro altitude in the XStats is close to that of the GPS at an altitude of around 20M. The Baro, GPS and rangefinder need to be reasonably correlated. If you have a rangefinder the altitude hold switches to rangefinder at around 6-7M up. If the baro calibration is not accurate then the aircraft can yo-yo as UAVX switches from baro -> rangefinder -> baro etc. The math to do this calibration automatically in flight takes up too much code space and is way too slow. It may be possible in a later release.

The Desc (dm/S) parameter is a rate of descent limiting value to prevent the aircraft from dropping to quickly to a new altitude in a RTH or in the upcoming waypoint navigation.

You can now set your compass offset in UAVPSet now rather than using the default 270deg or the special 90D version of the hexfile. The increments are in 90deg. The compass offset box does not change to green after a parameter write so you need to remember to do the write if you change the offset. This will be fixed in future releases of UAVPSet.

The servo sense buttons are for reversing servos in HELI and FIXED WING combinations and are not used by the various "multicopters". If you toggle them in UAVPSet you can see what their intended use is in the log/help window.

etc. etc. 


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages