#summary Brief procedures on how to use UAVX for the first time.

== Introduction ==

DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT DRAFT

This is intended to be a brief introduction to the steps you may wish to take when first using UAVX.

You should NOT use GPS initially regardless of how tempting it may be to do so. 

== Assumptions ==

It is assumed you are:
  * familiar with the use of UAVPSet to setup parameters for UAVP, UAVX's predecessor.
  * you have flown your quadrocopter/tricopter using UAVP with some success.
  * you have read the UAVP manual.
  * you have installed the requisite 18F2620 PIC with associated bootloader.

== Stage 1: without GPS =

Most of this will be familiar to you as the procedure is nearly identical to that you will have used with UAVP.

Using the UAVX capable version of UAVPSet:
  * if you have a GPS DISCONNECT it.
  * load the flight software into your quadrocopter (there many less HEX files to choose from and the one you need should be self evident).
  * Select UAVX in the pulldown. 
  * Initialise your flight parameters from a saved UAVP V3.15 file or using the Tools->Testsoftware->D command in UAVPSet. 
  * Select the Tx/Rx, Gyro and ESCs you are using from the appropriate pulldowns and write the config to parameter set #1. Be aware that the Gear switch is no longer used to switch between paramter set 1 & 2. This is done using stick programming (see below) once UAVX is successfully talking to your Tx/Rx. 
  * As for UAVP use Tools->Testsoftware ensure your the Rx signals are being received correctly. Verify this in the Rx Graphic which now displays in % units.
  * Save your parameters to a file. UAVX will accept V3.15 parameter files but files written by UAVX are not compatible with V3.15.
  * Initialise the accelerometer neutrals as for UAVP.
  * Set up parameter set 2. You will see that many of the parameters are not displayed on the Parameter Set 2 page as these are now common to both parameter sets.
  * Arm the quadrocopter and observe that the Red LED will blink several times at about one second intervals as the Gyros are initialised - this is the first difference from UAVP. The quadrocopter MUST NOT be moved while the Red LED is blinking otherwise you may a large drift offset!
  * Ensure that the response of the quadrocopter is acceptable using the normal pre-flight checks. You will see that UAVPSet no longer communicates with UAVX once the quadrocopter is armed. If you need to modify parameters you will need to disarm.
  * Fly (at your own risk as always) and tune the various flight parameters as required.
  
== Stage 2: with GPS ==

This is new territory and you will need to do some homework for your location. Read the GPS Navigation page carefully.

Using the UAVX capable version of UAVPSet:
  * Connect your GPS.
  * Set the GPS related parameters (notes below to follow).
  * Turn the knob connected to Channel 7 to minimum (this will disable GPS support).
  * Select off/minimum using your Gear switch on Channel 5 (this turns RTH off). If you fail to do this a beeper alarm will sound.
  * Disable RTH altitude hold (see stick programming). This means that the normal hover mechanism is used whereby the quadrocopter will assume you are hovering after 3 seconds and use the baro and accelerometer to attempt to maintain altitude.
  * The quadrocopter can return home maintaining its current heading pitching and rolling as required to move towards the Origin or it can turn towards the Origin using pitch control only. This may also be set with Stick Programming.
  * Arm the quadrocopter and after the initial blinking Red LED as the Gyros are initialised you should see the Blue LED blinking at the update rate of your GPS. At this point the Red LED will stay lit until UAVX is happy with the GPS accuracy. This may take anything up to 5 minutes particularly on the first flight in a new location. Once the Red LED goes out a satisfactory origin location has been recorded. Currently the flight software does not prevent you from taking off before the Red LED goes out but be aware the origin value will be somewhere (anywhere) along your flight path. Be patient. 
  * Takeoff and fly to a safe height and away from you 30M/100'. Check to see that you have a good hover.
  * Engage RTH using the Gear switch. You should see no change in the behaviour of the quadrocopter. It is important that you HAVE disabled the RTH altitude hold (see above) otherwise you will have no throttle control.
  * Slowly increase the setting of the Channel 7 knob and you should see the quadrocopter start to tilt towards the origin position (where the GPS location was acquired after arming). You should still have control of pitch, roll, yaw and throttle and can overcome the corrections being applied by the GPS. 
  * Try switching off RTH and you should come to a halt at the current position. The GPS at this point is attempting to maintain this position but again can be overcome using pitch and roll corrections.  There will be a temptation to "help" the GPS using pitch and roll but be aware that if you move either the pitch and roll sticks by more than about 5% then the desired location will be updated.
  * Keep playing until you are familiar with what is happening.

== Stage 3: RTH with Altitude Hold and Auto Land ==

Up to this point moving the control sticks will overcome any corrections the GPS may be exerting. This stage is a lot different as you are handing over throttle control completely to the navigation software.

The steps are:
  * Set the Barometer as your Altitude source using UAVPSet.
  * Check the navigation parameters are as recommended in the defaults.
  * Select RTH altitude hold using stick programming.
  * Use the GPS gain setting (Channel 7) you found you were happy with in Stage 2.
  * As in Stage 2 fly to a safe altitude and distance.
  * Engage RTH. At this point you have NO THROTTLE CONTROL AT ALL as this is being used by the RTH altitude hold software. Leave the throttle where it is or increase it by about 10%. Do not close throttle as if you disengage RTH the quadrocopter will fall like a brick.  If the RTH altitude you have set is much higher than when you engaged RTH then the quadrocopter will climb quite rapidly and your natural instinct will be to close the throttle - don't do it. If all is well you should see the quadrocopter climb/descend to the RTH altitude you have selected and start heading back to the Origin. If you are unhappy disengage RTH.

Now another interesting feature. Thirty seconds after you have arrived within the  selected radius of the origin position with RTH still engaged the quadrocopter will start to descend at approximately 1 Metre/Sec slowing to 0.5 Metres/Sec.  Disengaging RTH will cause the quadrocopter to revert to GPS assisted position hold but you must control the altitude manually. This is the reason that hover throttle plus 10% may be a good strategy to have as it will arrest the fall and give you enough time to re-establish hover.

The auto descend feature is the logical extension of using RTH primarily as failsafe support. There are many other things we can try/abandon including altitude and distance from Origin containment.....

== Stick Programming ==

To follow. See the GPS Navigation page.

== Suggested Navigation Parameters ==

Use the defaults for now.
  